Previously on
The Big Bang Theory...
- What's this?
- Oh, nothing.
Just some math we don't need.
This is a different approach.
Are you trying to get the guidance system
even smaller?
It's just a theory.
It's not even worked out.
Oh.
I want this.
But we've already met
the agreed-upon specs.
Going smaller would require
weeks' worth of new computations.
So get the kid with the two shirts
to do it.
Sir, if I may,
we've put a lot of thought and effort
into this current prototype.
It's a really elegant solution
and most importantly, it works.
You both make excellent points.
Thank you for presenting it
so articulately.
Make this.
- Champagne, champagne.
- Thank you.
And for the world's tallest second-grader,
apple juice.
No bendy straw, some party.
A toast, thank you all
for your support
while we worked on our Air Force project
and please know that we could
not have done it without you.
- So, cheers!
- Cheers!
It's nice of you to acknowledge us,
but this is your accomplishment.
Yeah, you guys did this all on your own.
Without me.
To success without Raj.
So, what happens next?
Phase two, we test it, perfect it,
and hope to live long enough
to see the movie based on our lives
starring more attractive versions of us.
I'll definitely live long enough.
Vitamin C.
First thing tomorrow morning,
we're back at it.
Without me.
I hope his character doesn't make it
into the movie, he's kind of a bummer.
Leonard Hofstadter. Access granted.
I don't care if this thing's
burning out my retinas,
it makes me feel special.
Before we field-test, I think...
- What the hell?
- Where is everything?
Who else has access to this room?
It's a secure lab
in a classified facility,
only the US Government and us.
This is very disconcerting.
But, the movie did just get good.
Sir, I'm sorry, but I just don't get it,
you came into our lab
in the middle of the night
and took our prototype and all of our
research and didn't even tell us?
Sounds like you get it.
Why would you do that?
You guys completed phase one,
we'll take it from here.
Where did you move it?
I can't tell you that.
Are you implementing phase two?
Wait, so you're just going to take
all the work we've done
for the last year and toss us aside?
That one I can tell you. Yes.
This is all very upsetting.
I'm sorry to hear that.
As you know, the primary focus
of the United States military
is people's feelings.
If that's sarcasm,
please save it for our enemies.
I may be moving out soon.
I think I found a place to live.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
Really?
You kept sending me apartment listings.
Um, well... Yeah, you got me.
- Where are you moving?
- And when? But also, where?
Bert has a room for rent.
So, you're gonna be roommates with Bert?
Uh, no, it's pretty private actually.
It's over his garage.
So, the only time I'll see him
is when he pulls his car in,
does his laundry or practices drums
in my dining room.
Well, good for you.
I actually have a little news myself.
Okay, we're just gonna circle back
to when he's moving out...
Okay, that's cool.
I was, uh, asked to be
a visiting researcher at Princeton.
- Hey, that's amazing.
- Congratulations.
Thanks, but the thing is
I'll be gone for a few months
and I don't know how
Sheldon's gonna feel about that.
Oh, come on, he's a grown man,
he can take care of himself.
You really believe that?
Once again, you got me.
How can you work on something for a year
and they just take it?
I can't believe
the Air Force would treat us like that.
You know, I've a good mind
to stop paying my taxes.
It's too bad I enjoy doing them so much.
The Air Force did it again!
They're erasing our lives.
Third floor, wrong apartment.
Although, if anyone's gonna clean out your
apartment and disappear, it'd be Penny.
She might disappear, but she's definitely
not cleaning anything.
It's okay, everything's here.
Hey, what's goin' on?
You won't believe it,
the military confiscated our project.
- What?
- You're kidding, why would they do that?
They wouldn't say.
I feel so betrayed.
All my life I thought Uncle Sam
was a friendly uncle
who brought you presents.
It turns out, he's the other kind.
Sheldon, I'm so sorry.
Thank you.
Can we just talk about something else?
Yeah, what's going on with you guys?
Give us some good news.
Amy's got some news.
Yeah, um...
Raj is moving out.
Oh, no. When?
You doing okay?
Not really.
You want me to put on some Neil Diamond?
That always makes you feel better.
No, then you'll get all sexed up,
and I'm not in the mood.
I mean, an entire year wasted.
You might be forgetting another
accomplishment of the past year.
Oh. Yeah, yeah,
we brought life into the world.
Really? That's the importance
you put on us having a baby?
I'm happy about it,
but it's not like I did much.
I mean, after the first three minutes,
it was pretty much all you.
So, did you tell him about Princeton yet?
No, I'm waiting until he's in a good mood.
Oh. Sweetie, you might not live that long.
I don't know, maybe I shouldn't go.
Oh, stop it. He'll be fine.
I guess. And he'll have you and Leonard
right across the hall the whole time.
Oh, damn. Wait, maybe you shouldn't go.
Gotta go. Morning.
I apologize for exceeding
my allotted bathroom time.
You feeling okay?
Not really. Apparently grief
can make one less regular.
Oh, I'm sorry to hear that.
I sat and I sat, but to no avail.
Well, the more details, the more sorry.
Well, maybe this'll cheer you up.
I made your favorite oatmeal, plain.
What's the occasion?
No occasion, I just wanted to do
something nice for you.
You're so kind.
Now, I don't know
how I ever got by without you.
That's sweet,
but you did just fine on your own.
I thought that too,
but I've come to realize
I am completely dependent on you.
Sheldon, you're being silly.
No, to wake up every morning
and know you're there
is a great comfort to me.
Mmm...
Tasteless.
How do you do it?
You know, what you need to do is
put this Air Force project behind you
and just dive into something new.
Well, there is our
quantum cognition experiment.
You and I could spend more time on that.
Oh, I don't know, I mean,
let's say we succeed
in proving that our consciousness
creates reality.
I mean, what will we
have really accomplished?
You know, a loaf of bread's
still three bucks.
I'm confused. You're always saying that
you want to spend more time with me.
That is true, I have said that.
Well, a lot, it's very annoying.
Has something changed?
Is there something
that you're not telling me?
I was offered a summer research fellowship
at Princeton.
Princeton, a fine institution.
The place where Albert Einstein taught
and where Leonard got his PhD,
so it may have gone downhill.
That's the one.
Well, that's wonderful, congratulations.
Well, I haven't accepted it yet,
I wanted to talk to you first.
Well, what is there to talk about?
You have to take it, it's important.
- So are you.
- Thank you, but I'll be fine.
Are you sure?
Yes. I may have lost my guidance system
and my girlfriend,
but I still have a colon full of
yesterday's meals to keep me company.
Although thanks to your
high-fiber breakfast,
I'm sure that'll be leaving me too.
Really? He doesn't put raisins
or banana slices or anything in it?
I don't think plain oatmeal
was the point of that story.
- I mean, I like a little brown sugar...
- Guys.
Sorry. You're still gonna go, right?
I don't know,
Sheldon's so vulnerable right now.
Oh, come on.
Look, if the roles were reversed,
he'd be on the first train to New Jersey
or the second train
if there were teenagers on the first one.
A little distance might be nice.
The last time a big project
ended for Howie,
he wouldn't stop following me around.
He even went with me to get a mammogram.
Well, what's wrong with that?
No, he wanted to get one with me,
like some kind of weird couple's massage.
And yet you bore his child, neato.
Well, you're excited
about this opportunity, right?
Of course,
I get to be a part of the first team
to use radon markers
to map the structures that...
Okay. A simple "yes" will do.
- You have to go.
- I know, but what if Sheldon...
Okay. Listen to me, your relationship can
handle being long-distance for a while.
It's not like you two are very physical.
You don't know
what goes on behind closed doors.
A lot of lectures?
All right, so you know.
I'm telling you, if you don't go,
you'll end up regretting it.
Hey! Wait up.
Oh, great.
You left something at home.
- A big hug!
- Oh!
I found it right next to these kisses.
It's too late for me, save yourself.
So, are you excited
to have your own place again?
- I am, but I'll miss you guys.
- I know, we'll miss you too.
You could try saying that without smiling.
I'm trying, but this is the best I can do.
What are you doing?
What does it look like?
I'm playing sad harmonica
in an apartment as empty as my heart.
Why?
I got the blues. My baby done left me.
Come on, Sheldon.
Amy's only gone for a few months.
And now that I'm moving out,
your old room is empty,
so you can stay there whenever you want.
Uh, could I talk to you
in the hall for a sec?
Yeah, sure.
Sheldon, you're being silly.
Am I?
Yesterday I had an Air Force project,
a girlfriend who lived with me and
my good friend Raj right across the hall.
You really care about that last one?
No, but that list
was sounding a little thin.
Well, instead of dwelling on the negative,
think about this.
Your girlfriend was given
an amazing opportunity,
which gives you an opportunity to show her
that you're a loving
and supportive boyfriend.
So, trick her.
All right, let me start again.
Uh, you and Amy...
Can I get my stuff?
Sounds like it's gonna be a while.
I missed you.
- Come here, let's talk.
- Ooh.
Sounds serious. Have I been a bad boy?
- Am I gonna get a spanking...
- Just listen!
I don't know if you realize this,
but whenever you're between projects
you tend to get a little insecure.
- Oh.
- A little clingy.
I know,
and I'm sorry.
Oh, oh! Okay, stop. Stop!
I love when you're affectionate,
but this is not coming from a good place.
Well, excuse me, but what did you do
when you worked on that allergy drug
for two years and the FDA
shut down your project?
I signed us up for ballroom dance class.
Okay. And what did you do when they
took you off the anti-fungal team?
I made us have a baby.
So?
Bring it in.
And now the movie
just got rated R.
Hey. You going somewhere?
No, but you are,
so I got you this as a present.
Sheldon, that isn't necessary.
No, it is. Leonard pointed out to me
that I'm not always
a loving and supportive boyfriend,
so here's some quality luggage.
Thank you.
The salesman said
it could survive a plane crash, so...
Perhaps you should fly inside it.
Does this mean you're okay with me going?
Well, I'm not looking forward to it,
but it is a wonderful opportunity
and you need to take it.
Besides, Princeton is in New Jersey,
so it's not like
you're gonna want to stay.
Uh...
I know it's not your birthday,
but if you're interested...
- I am.
- Okay.
Oh, and just to be clear,
I'm not being intimate with you
in order to keep you from going.
I wasn't thinking that.
Well, no, I'm just warning you, you know,
if you find yourself 3,000 miles away
and craving a hit of this...
I can't Skype it to you.
That's a risk I'm willing to take.
All right then, let's go to the bedroom,
remove our clothes, fold them neatly...
And engage in frenzied lovemaking.
What if we don't fold our clothes at all?
Or... What if we fold them?
- Well, here's your key back.
- Thank you.
Uh, soon as I have the place set up,
I'm gonna have you guys over.
Oh, we would love that.
I really can't thank you enough
for taking me in.
I was at a pretty low place in my life...
Oh, Amy, you naughty vixen.
Anyway, uh, as I was saying,
I was at a pretty low place in my life
and if it wasn't for friends like you...
My goodness, that form of stimulation
is highly efficient.
I can't compete with that, bye.
Should we give them their privacy?
I want to, but I don't think I can.
Okay, I'm good now.
Okay, the car is waiting.
Do you wanna walk me downstairs?
Of course. Here, let me.
I've been doing a little research
on New Jersey,
and I was delighted to learn that
their chief agricultural product is sod.
- Is it?
- Yes. Yeah.
Perhaps I've been harder on them
than they deserve.
Do you think it's possible you might enjoy
being on your own for a little while?
Well, it's hard to say.
I've never really lived by myself.
What if I become strange and eccentric?
I'll love you no matter what.
Howard Hughes saved his urine
in milk bottles.
We'll cross that bridge
when we come to it.
You'll text me
when you arrive at the airport?
- I will. Uh-huh.
- When you're at the gate?
And if you see any actors
from Game of Thrones in first class?
I don't know what they look like,
but sure.
- Don't forget to Skype me when you arrive.
- I won't.
- And every morning.
- Got it.
Now, of course my 9:00 a.m.
is your noon,
so let's avoid the whole
"good morning, good afternoon" minefield,
and let's just say, "Hello."
Good thinking.
And just remember, I'm proud of you
and I support you in all that you do.
Thank you, that means a lot.
Oh, and one last thing, if you find
yourself working with a male scientist
who's as smart as me, as tall as me,
and has hair like Thor,
well, then, I want you to step away from
the situation and call me immediately.
English-SDH